All right, so we're now going to construct an HTML bill there is so that all of this code is more understandable.
So we're going to start by defining an HTML element, because that's what is going to be the building
block of just about everything that we do with HTML.
So I'm going to make a class called HTML Element and this is going to represent just a single tag like
the pétanque here, for example, with some content, maybe some text, but it can also contain other
attacks.
So this particular tag can contain other tags.
For example, here we have an unordered list tag which contains a bunch of list item tags.
So we're going to support the scenario now in the HTML element.
I'm going to have a bunch of public fields.
In this case, I'm not going to be doing properties.
It's too complex, for our example.
So I'll just have public fields, code name and text.
I'll also have a list of child elements.
So public list of HTML element called elements and I may as well initialize it straight away and will
also have perhaps we'll do indentation because when I run this you can see that it's all output has
a single line.
Maybe I want it looking a bit prettier when I output everything nicely formatted.
So I'm going to have an indentation level the size of the indent.
So that's going to be private int indent size equal to two, for example.
So we're going to indent everything by two spaces.
OK, now let's make a bunch of constructors so I'll make an empty constructor, but I'll also make a
constructor which initializes the name in the text.
So let's go in here and initialize the name and the text as well.
All right.
I'm going to reduce some of these since they can now be simplified in C sharp seven, even though rehabber
hasn't caught up to yet and still complains about the question mark.
We're going to disregard this.
So what's going on now?
Now we want to output this HTML element has a string and we're going to keep using the string builder
because it's a nice builder.
Its convenient way of building up string.
So what I'm going to do is define private string to string empl.
So this is the implementation of two string that we're subsequently going to output in the official
to string override, but we're going to have an extra parameter for the indent indent and that's precisely
what we're going to be using when we implement that ordinary two string.
So if I override the ordinary two string that's going to return to string input with a starting indentation
of zero seems obvious enough.
So what we're going to do here is we're going to make a string builder.
We're also going to make the current level indentation.
And this is going to be interesting.
So we have the indent level.
How many steps have moved from the left margin and we have the indentation size.
I'm going to use spaces to indent.
So when I'm going to do is make a new string where a single space is going to be repeated a certain
number of times.
So that number of times is obviously indent size multiplied by however many indents we actually need.
So then size times indent end.
OK, so now I need to spend the opening tag.
So that's going to be speed or depend.
And here I'm just going to use string interpolation.
I'll open the indent which I have called.
I followed by the tag.
So here is the opening and then the tag name.
Closing and then, well, we may as well do a penalty and let's just put a line break at the end of
it.
OK, so that's our tack.
Now, the tag may contain some tax.
So I'm going to say, if not string is now or whitespace text, we're going to output the text as well.
So here I'm going to append, first of all, an indentation similar to the indentation we have here.
But remember, we're now outputting text, so we need to indent by one.
So I'm going to copy this over pasted here.
But this time round, it's going to be indent plus one here.
So that's the indentation for the text, but a semicolon and then I add the text as well.
So as be append text like so and then I well we may as well do a line, so let's put a line break at
the end of it.
OK, so that's the text.
Now we have the children.
So if this tag contains a bunch of other tags, we can do it for each.
Once again we can say for each of the elements, so for each var e in elements we as betore depend.
And here we just do a recursive call.
So we say we take the element and we do two string mple.
So it's a recursive call with the indentation level of indent plus one, and that's how you get the
nested indentation for each of the inner HDMI elements.
And then of course you have to close the tag.
So this is similar to what we have here except with the slash like so, so close the tag and we return
as B dot to string, so we return the overall string.
OK, so now we have an HTML element and we may as well build an HTML builder, which is actually a convenient
API for constructing a tree of these HTML elements.
So let's do that.
So I'm going to have a class called HTML Builder like so now I'm going to start the builder by specifying
the root tag and I want the name of the Rohtak because we're going to have some kind of root.
So I'll have a HTML element called The Root here and I'll initialize it.
Just put a default initialization.
This explains why I made the default constructor.
So I don't have to specify anything here.
But when I go ahead and I make my constructor, when I make an HTML builder, what I can do is I can
take a string which specifies the name, and then what I can do is I can assign it so I can say root
dot name equals root name.
But in addition I might want to store it as a variable.
We're going to need it in just a moment.
So I'll initialize a field with this parameter as well.
OK, so now that I have this kind of API, I can add a method to actually add a child.
Public void has child string, child name and string child text and this adds a child to whichever object
I'm working with.
So I make an HTML element, html element with child name and child text like so.
And then of course I take the root element and I take its elements and I say I really aliments add and
add.
This particular element seems simple enough.
This approach doesn't scale very well by the way, but it's good for kind of showing a overall design
of the builder.
So now that we have the setup, we need a few more pieces.
Actually, we're not done yet because we want to output this as a string.
So we implement the two string override here.
Interesting that it doesn't complete that we go.
So here we return and we take the route and just do Roodt to string.
That's how we return the string representation.
We might also want to have an implementation for clearing the entire builder because our builder is
stateful, keeps this route.
So we may as well clear it in some sort of method.
So I'll make a method called clear.
And here what we're going to do is we're going to reset the route.
So I'm going to say route equals new HTML element, but we want to keep the name.
And that's why I made a field here called Route Name because we want to keep that name.
So I'll say name equals route name.
There we go.
So we have this clear method and now we can start using the whole thing so we can actually have a similar
construct, an unwanted list with two elements.
But we're going to be using an HTML builder.
So I'm going to see if our builder equals new HTML builder.
The top level route name is an unordered list.
You will.
And then I'm going to add the children.
So I'm going to say builder dot.
Yeah, child list item called Hello and I'll just duplicate this and put Weld in here.
So these are the two items and then we can once again write Line Builder, talk to String Xi.
The two string is redundant and if I execute this well, we forgot a closing round brackets somewhere.
Let's take a look.
So we have an extra round bracket needed here, and if we execute this well, you see it's now much
prettier because we added the indentation.
But really, the benefit isn't just the indentation.
The benefit is that we've structured it in an object oriented way.
We've built up a tree and we essentially made a special construct called an e-mail builder, which is
its sole purpose in life is to build up trees of HTML elements and this is the result of its output.